README.md, before:

# Hands-On |  Spring API
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/by-Alejandro.Fuentes-informational?style=flat-square&logoColor=white&color=cdcdcd" />

> This project is for DIO platform study.
> 
> thecnologies that to use
> 
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white" alt="Java language"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon_AWS-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" alt="Amazon AWS"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=Spring&logoColor=white" alt="Spring framework"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=PostgreSQL&logoColor=white" alt="Postgresql database"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/H2_DB_Memory-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="H2 database"/>

## Steps

### Step 1 | create spring project

We can use the [Spring Initializr][link-initializr] for create our project.
This site is a good platform where we can create the structure our project quickly and easily.

#### tools that was use in this project

* Spring Web
* Spring Data JPA (_Java Persistence API_)
* H2 Database (_in-memory database that support JDBC API and R2DBC access_)
* PostgreSQL Driver

### Step 2 | versioning in one repository

We can use some repository platform such GitLab, GitHub, and so on.

#### steps for it
**in the platform (remote repository)**
1. create one account
2. create one repository in the chosen platform

**in the local terminal**
3. create a work folder
4. start `git init`
5. link with our remote repository `git remote add <url-of-our-remote-repository>`
6. after add or change some file, to do synchronize 

```bash
git commit -m"some message"
git push
```

### Step 3 | Abstraction 

In this [figma graph][link-figmaabstration] is where I did abstraction.

I use [Json editor online][link-jsoneditoronline] how tools for create abstraction.

```json
{
  "icon": "myPhoto",
  "name": "alefuentes",
  "account": {
    "number": "000000000-0",
    "agency": "0000",
    "balance": 1234.12,
    "limit": 10000.00
  },
  "cards": [
    {
      "number": "xxxx xxxx xxxx 0000",
      "name": "ale fuentes",
      "valid": "12/24",
      "limit": 10000.00
    }
  ],
  "transactions": [
    {
      "icon": "",
      "description": "Deposit from my",
      "amount": 150.00,
      "data": "28/03/2024"
    }
  ],
  "weekAtivity": [
    {
      "day": "sunday",
      "amountIn": 150.00,
      "amountOut": 75.00
    }
  ],
  "expense": [
    {
      "percent": 20,
      "description": "Investment"
    }
  ],
  "quickTransfer": [
    {
      "icon": "",
      "name": "Daniel Fuentes",
      "title": "Designer"
    }
  ],
  "balanceHistory": [
    {
      "month": "March",
      "amount": 575.00
    }
  ]
}
```

> 💡 **TIPs**: After get our abstraction we can use IA for generate our class representations.
>   How promtp, did use: 
> 
>   _Generate a class diagram (using Mermaid syntax) given the following JSON that represents a database user. Keep a simple structure and faithful to the model I will give:_

Next result of our Abstraction:

```mermaid
classDiagram
	class User {
		-String icon 
		-String name 
		-Account account 
		-List<Card> cards 
		-List<Transaction> transactions 
		-List<WeekActivity> weekActivity 
		-List<Expense> expenses 
		-List<QuickTransfer> quickTransfers 
		-List<BalanceHistory> balanceHistory 
	}
	class Account {
		-String number 
		-String agency 
		-float balance 
		-float limit 
	}
	class Card {  
		-String number 
		-String name 
		-String valid 
		-float limit
	}
	class Transaction {  
		-String icon 
		-String description 
		-float amount 
		-String date 
	}
	class WeekActivity {  
		-String day 
		-float amountIn 
		-float amountOut 
	}
	class ExpenseStatistics {  
		-int percent 
		-String description 
	}
	class QuickTransfer {
		-String icon
		-String name
		-String title
	}
	class BalanceHistory {
		-String month
		-float amount
	}

	User "1" --* "1" Account : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" Card : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" Transaction : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" WeekActivity : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" ExpenseStatistics : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" QuickTransfer : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" BalanceHistory : Composition
	
	style User fill:#cdcdcd,stroke-width:0px
```

### Step 4 | Object Relations Mapping (ORM)

Create all models inner `model` package.

Add configuration in `properties.yml` for access to H2 memory DB.

```yaml
application:
  title: API Rest Cloud - LAB
  version: v1.0
  author: Alejandro Fuentes - alefuentes.edu
spring:
  application:
    name: api-rest-cloud-lab-2024
  # Database
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:h2:mem:apirestlab2024
    username: alefu
    password: 
  jpa:
    show-sql: true
    open-in-view: false
    hibernate:
      ddl-auto: create # validate | update | create | create-drop
    properties:
      hibernate:
        format_sql: true
  h2:
    console:
      enabled: true
      path: /h2-console
      settings:
        trace: false
        web-allow-others: false
```


<!-- links -->
[link-initializr]:https://start.spring.io/
[link-figmaabstration]:https://www.figma.com/file/cimP7PYnrMeFyOkbLaX9TI/My-Prototype-Bank?type=design&node-id=1-5&mode=design
[link-jsoneditoronline]:https://jsoneditoronline.org/

Commit message:

doc - add description for step service layers

README.md, after:

# Hands-On |  Spring API
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/by-Alejandro.Fuentes-informational?style=flat-square&logoColor=white&color=cdcdcd" />

> This project is for DIO platform study.
> 
> thecnologies that to use
> 
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white" alt="Java language"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Amazon_AWS-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=amazon-aws&logoColor=white" alt="Amazon AWS"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Spring-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=Spring&logoColor=white" alt="Spring framework"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logo=PostgreSQL&logoColor=white" alt="Postgresql database"/>
> <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/H2_DB_Memory-232F3E?style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="H2 database"/>

## Steps

### Step 1 | create spring project

We can use the [Spring Initializr][link-initializr] for create our project.
This site is a good platform where we can create the structure our project quickly and easily.

#### tools that was use in this project

* Spring Web
* Spring Data JPA (_Java Persistence API_)
* H2 Database (_in-memory database that support JDBC API and R2DBC access_)
* PostgreSQL Driver

### Step 2 | versioning in one repository

We can use some repository platform such GitLab, GitHub, and so on.

#### steps for it
**in the platform (remote repository)**
1. create one account
2. create one repository in the chosen platform

**in the local terminal**
3. create a work folder
4. start `git init`
5. link with our remote repository `git remote add <url-of-our-remote-repository>`
6. after add or change some file, to do synchronize 

```bash
git commit -m"some message"
git push
```

### Step 3 | Abstraction 

In this [figma graph][link-figmaabstration] is where I did abstraction.

I use [Json editor online][link-jsoneditoronline] how tools for create abstraction.

```json
{
  "icon": "myPhoto",
  "name": "alefuentes",
  "account": {
    "number": "000000000-0",
    "agency": "0000",
    "balance": 1234.12,
    "limit": 10000.00
  },
  "cards": [
    {
      "number": "xxxx xxxx xxxx 0000",
      "name": "ale fuentes",
      "valid": "12/24",
      "limit": 10000.00
    }
  ],
  "transactions": [
    {
      "icon": "",
      "description": "Deposit from my",
      "amount": 150.00,
      "data": "28/03/2024"
    }
  ],
  "weekAtivity": [
    {
      "day": "sunday",
      "amountIn": 150.00,
      "amountOut": 75.00
    }
  ],
  "expense": [
    {
      "percent": 20,
      "description": "Investment"
    }
  ],
  "quickTransfer": [
    {
      "icon": "",
      "name": "Daniel Fuentes",
      "title": "Designer"
    }
  ],
  "balanceHistory": [
    {
      "month": "March",
      "amount": 575.00
    }
  ]
}
```

> 💡 **TIPs**: After get our abstraction we can use IA for generate our class representations.
>   How promtp, did use: 
> 
>   _Generate a class diagram (using Mermaid syntax) given the following JSON that represents a database user. Keep a simple structure and faithful to the model I will give:_

Next result of our Abstraction:

```mermaid
classDiagram
	class User {
		-String icon 
		-String name 
		-Account account 
		-List<Card> cards 
		-List<Transaction> transactions 
		-List<WeekActivity> weekActivity 
		-List<Expense> expenses 
		-List<QuickTransfer> quickTransfers 
		-List<BalanceHistory> balanceHistory 
	}
	class Account {
		-String number 
		-String agency 
		-float balance 
		-float limit 
	}
	class Card {  
		-String number 
		-String name 
		-String valid 
		-float limit
	}
	class Transaction {  
		-String icon 
		-String description 
		-float amount 
		-String date 
	}
	class WeekActivity {  
		-String day 
		-float amountIn 
		-float amountOut 
	}
	class ExpenseStatistics {  
		-int percent 
		-String description 
	}
	class QuickTransfer {
		-String icon
		-String name
		-String title
	}
	class BalanceHistory {
		-String month
		-float amount
	}

	User "1" --* "1" Account : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" Card : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" Transaction : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" WeekActivity : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" ExpenseStatistics : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" QuickTransfer : Composition
	User "1" --* "0..n" BalanceHistory : Composition
	
	style User fill:#cdcdcd,stroke-width:0px
```

### Step 4 | Model Layer 

Create all models inner `model` package (_Object Relations Mapping (ORM)_).

Add configuration in `properties.yml` for access to H2 memory DB.

```yaml
application:
  title: API Rest Cloud - LAB
  version: v1.0
  author: Alejandro Fuentes - alefuentes.edu
spring:
  application:
    name: api-rest-cloud-lab-2024
  # Database
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:h2:mem:apirestlab2024
    username: alefu
    password: 
  jpa:
    show-sql: true
    open-in-view: false
    hibernate:
      ddl-auto: create # validate | update | create | create-drop
    properties:
      hibernate:
        format_sql: true
  h2:
    console:
      enabled: true
      path: /h2-console
      settings:
        trace: false
        web-allow-others: false
```

### Step 5 | Business Layer

in this step, to create the Service where to apply business rules.
The best practice says:

1. create a Service interface for my Entity
2. implement these Service interfaces in my class

<!-- links -->
[link-initializr]:https://start.spring.io/
[link-figmaabstration]:https://www.figma.com/file/cimP7PYnrMeFyOkbLaX9TI/My-Prototype-Bank?type=design&node-id=1-5&mode=design
[link-jsoneditoronline]:https://jsoneditoronline.org/
